# Recoil 0.0.11

Recoil 0.0.11 has been released with some exciting new features and fixes including:

## React Concurrent Mode
Introducing [Concurrent Mode](https://reactjs.org/docs/concurrent-mode-intro.html) support. (@davidmccabe)

## Packaging
In addition to NPM packages, we are now building Common JS and UMD modules [available via CDN](/docs/introduction/installation#cdn). (#413 - @mondaychen, @pocket7878)

## Flow Typing
[Flow](https://flow.org/) types are now being exported with the package in addition to TypeScript (#338, #468, #541 - Thanks @Brianzchen, @Komalov, @mondaychen)

## Context Bridging
There are cases where you may wish to share Recoil state across multiple `<RecoilRoot>` components.  For example, when using a nested `<RecoilRoot>` because of a custom React renderer or React root.  We introduced a new [`useRecoilBridgeAcrossReactRoots_UNSTABLE()` hook](/docs/api-reference/core/useRecoilBridgeAcrossReactRoots) to support this use case. (#298, #516 - @drarmstr, @inlet)

### Example

```jsx
function Bridge() {
  const RecoilBridge = useRecoilBridgeAcrossReactRoots_UNSTABLE();

  return (
    <CustomRenderer>
      <RecoilBridge>
        ...
      </RecoilBridge>
    </CustomRenderer>
  );
}

function MyApp() {
  return (
    <RecoilRoot>
      ...
      <Bridge />
    </RecoilRoot>
  );
}
```

## Preliminary support for dev tools and asynchronous state synchronization
We have introduced and updated some APIs to better support dev tools and state synchronization.  Our intent is to validate these APIs with initial implementations before formally publishing the APIs.  This also includes internal cleanup and improvements for handling of async values.  (@drarmstr)

## Bug Fixes

- Lots of fixes to the testing infrastructure and errors for supporting both open-source and internal environments (#368, #360, #362, #363, #392, #431, #402, #539) - Thanks @aaronabramov, @Komalov, @drarmstr, @jacques-blom, @mondaychen, @dsainati1, @csantos42, @behnammodi, @habond
- Other misc fixes

## Improvements

- Optimize Hook performance - Thanks @daviddmccabe
- Misc performance/memory improvements due to restructuring for Concurrent Mode - Thanks @davidmccabe
- Reduce number of renders React will issue for components (#399, #386) - Thanks @drarmstr
- Recoil will now only freeze objects stored as values with the development mode. (#361) - Thanks @drarmstr
- Improve TypeScript typings (#492, #545) - Thanks @csantos42, @SergeyVolynkin

## What’s Next?

We are continuing to work on memory management to allow Recoil to scale in the number of atoms/selectors used and free up resources when they are no longer being used.

We are actively working on dev tools via a Chrome extension.  There are also a few other open-source projects looking into dev tools and we are happy to discuss the unpublished APIs to support this.  As this matures, and we feel more confident in the API, we will formally publish them.

Though there have been some delays, we are still working on async state synchronization.  The initial Recoil support has been added and we are preparing a preliminary example libraries for state synchronization with the browser URL history or local state.  As these mature we will also be publishing them.

And, as always, we have more optimizations and fixes in the pipeline.
