---
title: Recoil 0.1.0
---

Welcome to Recoil version 0.1.0!  This release has performance improvements and introduces several *experimental* features such as support for React Native, working with Snapshots outside of React, and atom effects for managing side-effects of atoms such as logging, synchronization with external stores, persistence, etc.

Also, [nightly builds](/docs/introduction/installation#nightly-builds) are now available via the `nightly` branch.

## Performance

Several changes to improve Recoil's performance:
* Updates performed during `useRecoilCallback()` are now batched, which avoids copying data structures or performing updates for intermediate states.  This allowed setting 5,000 atoms in a loop to go from 10s -> 25ms with some of our stress tests. (@davidmccabe)
* Recoil also now avoids looking up selector values in cache if the selector's dependencies have not changed.  This improved some applications with complex data-flow graphs by 30-40x. (@davidmccabe)

## React Native (*Experimental*)

Recoil should now work with the React Native environment.  However, similar to server side rendering, it is not officially supported. (#114 - @jacques-blom, @mondaychen)

## Atom Effects (*Experimental*)

[Effects for atoms](/docs/guides/atom-effects) simplifies managing side-effect policies for atoms on a per-atom basis as part of the `atom()` or `atomFamily()` definition.  Effects can be used for interesting applications such as [logging](/docs/guides/atom-effects#logging-example) and state synchronization or persistence with external storage such as [remote databases](/docs/guides/atom-effects#state-synchronization-example), [local storage](/docs/guides/atom-effects#local-storage-persistence), browser URL history, etc.  For example, you could use an atom as a local copy of some user state and provide an effect to subscribe to changes on a server to update the local copy and for local changes to write-through and update the server. (#680, #380, #381, #384, #385, #448, #449, #412, #591, #634, #682 &#8212; @drarmstr, @csantos4242)

## Snapshots for Testing (*Experimental*)

Snapshots can now be [constructed outside of a React context](/docs/api-reference/core/Snapshot#building-a-snapshot).  This can be useful for [testing](/docs/guides/testing) or evaluating selectors outside of a React context. (#649 &#8212; @drarmstr, @habond)

## Bug Fixes

* This update has various bug fixes for testing and infrastructure (#555, #587, #588, #590, #635, #631, #683, #684, #686 &#8212; @aaronabramov, @mondaychen, @drarmstr, @mallchel, @davidmccabe, @csantos4242)
* Do not freeze objects which should not be frozen in development mode (#597, #633, #672 &#8212; @RinGoku, @a-sane)
* TypeScript typing for `Snapshot` (#687 &#8212; @kevinfrei, @drarmstr, @habond)
* Additional testing for `waitForAll()` concurrency (#681 &#8212; @drarmstr)

## Future Work

In a future release, Recoil will automatically free the memory used by atoms and selectors that are no longer used, and will perform better with larger numbers of atoms. (@davidmccabe)

Releasing our prototype Chrome developer tools. (@maxijb)

Libraries of effects for common state persistence, such as browser local storage or URL history (@bezi)

Thanks for your continued interest in Recoil!
